to the m east now and the White House
National Security adviser Jake Sullivan
has said the US is still working with
Israel to avoid a major military
operation in Rafa we still believe it is
would be a mistake to launch a major
military operation Into the Heart of
Rafa that would put huge numbers of
civilians at risk without a clear
strategic gain the president was clear
that he would not supply certain
offensive weapons for such an operation
were it to occur it is not yet occurred
and we are still working with Israel on
a better way to ensure the defeat of
Hamas everywhere in Gaza including in
Rafa well let's go live to Jerusalem and
our correspondent Dan Johnson Dan um
we've had news that a un Aid worker has
been killed what more do we know about
that yes we know a un vehicle was hit
yesterday uh containing at least two un
Aid workers one of them killed one of
them injured we don't know a huge amount
about who they are or what the
circumstances of this incident was
whether that was an air strike or if
that vehicle was engaged by Ground
Forces there is video that shows a
marked un vehicle that's had its Windows
shot out now whether that's the the
vehicle that we're talking about we're
still waiting for confirmation the
incident's been condemned by the uh
Secretary General Antonio gutterz who
sent his condolences to the families of
those involved and highlighted the risks
that un and other Aid work workers are
facing in Gaza more than 190 un Aid
workers have been killed now since uh
October he's called for a full
investigation and Israel Defense Forces
are conducting that review of exactly
what happened in this incident they say
the early indications are that this
vehicle was in an area of active combat
and that its position its route hadn't
been notified to the IDF so that is
perhaps how this incident occurred but
we'll have to wait for more information
but one Aid worker killed another one
injured yesterday there have been
disruption to aid supplies coming into
Gaza as well with some Israeli
protesters yesterday blockading trucks
that were heading from Jordan through
the West Bank trying to take aid
supplies into Gaza that's been an issue
they want to highlight the ongoing
plight of the hostages who are still
being held by Hamas in Gaza and of
course the fighting continues we know
that there's been an operation around
raford but also Israel targeting jamalia
in the north what do we know about that
operation yeah we've seen an
intensification of the military buildup
around Rafa over the last week in
particular but then yesterday we saw
tanks moving back into areas in Northern
Gaza areas that had been declared
cleared and free of Hamas terrorists
just earlier uh this year so the fact
that the Israel Defense Forces are going
back in there raises a question about
whether Hamas has been able to rebuild
its strength repopulate battalions in
that area and now how the IDF is is
going to deal with that and what further
destruction that will cause what further
upheaval that will mean for Palestinians
uh who've gone back into that area
believing that it was safe believing
that military operations had uh
concluded there and this brings into
question whether Israel's strategy to
drive out Hamas is actually sustainable
in the long run huge questions a huge
risk to the civilian population of Gaza
more than 20% of gaza's population is
now estimated to have been uh uprooted
and moved again just within the last
week that is hundreds of thousands of
people who were already without homes
and are now without a safe place to
shelter enormous issues uh to be
considered on the day that Israel is
marking 76 years of Independence 76
years since the creation of the modern
Jewish State yes and on that I assume
there have been subdued commemorations
this
year yes the Prime Minister said this
was not a normal Independence Day
because the country is engaged in
Conflict there are still hostages being
held by Hamas families calling for their
safe return there are uh IDF soldiers
who are still involved in combat even
today so the normal events are not being
marked in the same way there is a somber
mood to this Independence Day and the
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said
to the people of this country yesterday
that they war for independence they War
for freedom is not over while this
conflict is ongoing Dan Johnson with the
latest live from Jerusalem thank you
very much around the world and across
the UK this is BBC News